.\"   Man page for hashbang
.TH man 7 "29 May 2014" "0.5" "#! man page"

.SH NAME
#! \- "shell" service and collective of awesome people.

.SH SYNOPSIS

bash <(curl hashbang.sh)

.SH DESCRIPTION

We are a diverse community of people who love teaching and learning.
Putting a #! at the beginning of a "script" style program tells a computer that
it needs to "do something" or "execute" the file. Likewise, we are a community
of people that like to "do stuff".

If you like technology and want to learn to write your first program, learn to
use Linux, or even take on interesting challenges with some of the best in
the industry, you are in the right place.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP

.BI ssh\ someuser@hashbang.sh
Use the "ssh" command to get yourself back into your account from any computer
that has your private key.
.TP
.BI cat\ foo
echo the foo file to the console

.SH AVAILABLE SOFTWARE
.SS Compilers / Interpreters / Programming Languages
perl - A high-level, general-purpose dynamic programming language. Commonly
referred to as "the duct tape of the internet."

python - A high-level, general-purpose programming language that emphasizes
code readability.

ruby - A dynamic, object-oriented general-purpose programming language.

lua - A lightweight multi-paradigm programming language designed as a scripting
language.

clojure - A general-purpose programming language with an emphasis on functional
programming. It is a dialect of the Lisp programming language.

go - A statically-typed language developed at Google with syntax loosely derived from C with
garbage collection.

nodejs - A cross-platform runtime environment for server-side and network
applications written in javascript.

sbcl - (Steel Bank Common Lisp) A Lisp implementation that features a high
performance native compiler, Unicode support, and threading.

gcc - (GNU Compiler Collection) A compiler system that supports C, C++ and
various other programming languages.

smlnj -(Standard ML of New Jersey) a compiler and programming environment for
Standard ML
.SS Text Editors
vim - A popular vi clone and the IDE of choice of most of the #! regulars.
Ships by default on all operating systems that matter.

nano - A text editor that emulates the Pico text editor and is part of the GNU
Project.

joe - (Joe's Own Editor) a text editor designed for ease of use.

pico - (Pine Composer) a text editor originally integrated with the pine e-mail
client and designed at the Office of Computing and Communications at the
University of Washington.

mcedit - Internal text editor for the Midnight Commander file manager.

zile - An Emacs like text editor that is less resource intensive.
.SS Password Management
pass - A shell based password manager.
.SS Cryptography / Hashing
gpg - (GNU Privacy Guard) A GPL Licensed alternative to the PGP suite of
cryptographic software compliant with RFC 4880.

md5sum - Calculates and verifies 128-bit MD5 hashes as described in RFC 1321.

shasum - Calculates and verifies SHA hashes.
.SS Time Management
calendar - Checks current directory or CALENDAR_DIR environment variable for a
file named calendar and displays appointments and reminders.
.SS Shells
bash - (Bourne Again Shell) The standard shell on most Linux and unix-like
systems which is a GNU replacement for the Unix Bourne shell. A linux classic
brah.

zsh - (Z Shell) An extension of the Bourne shell extended with features from
ksh and tcsh.

fish - (Friendly Interactive Shell) An attempt to make a more interactive,
user-friendly shell.

ksh - (Korn Shell) A shell backwards compatible with the Bourne shell but also
includes many features of the C shell.
.SS Email
mutt - A text-based email client. "All mail clients suck. This one just sucks
less."
.SS Math
units - Unit conversion utility.

bc - An arbitrary precision calculator language

.SS Chat / IM
weechat-curses - Wee Enhanced Environment for Chat (Curses version)

irssi - A text-based IRC client written in the C programming language.
.SS Web Browsing
elinks - Similar to links, but also supports Form Input, Password Management,
and Tabbed Browsing

lynx - A general purpose distributed information web browser.

w3m - A text based web browser and pager.
.SS File Management
mc - (Midnight Commander) A text-based file manager similar to Norton
Commander.

scp - (Secure Copy) A client that uses the Secure Shell protocol to securely
transfer files between hosts. 

rsync - A file synchronization and file transfer program that minimizes network
data transfer by using a form of delta encoding called the rsync algorithm.

du - (disc usage) Estimates file space usage on a filesystem.

ncdu - A simple ncurses disk usage analyzer.

stow - A symlink manager. Helpful for managing several locally-installed things.

find - Used to search the filesystem for a particular file.

locate - Searches a prebuilt database for files on a filesystem.

tree - A recursive directory listing program that produces a depth-indented
listing of files.
.SS Archiving
zip - A PKZIP compatible compression and file packaging utility.

unzip - Utility for uncompressing PKZIP compressed files.

tar - Utility used for compressing and uncompressing tar files.

gzip - An application used to create gzip compressed files.
.SS Network
telnet - Used to communicate with another host using the telnet protocol.

ssh - A client used to connect to a host using the Secure Shell protocol.

siege - A multi-threaded http load testing and benchmarking utility.

curl - A tool used to transfer data from or to a server using HTTP, HTTPS, FTP,
FTPS, SCP, SFTP, TFTP, DICT, TELNET, LDAP or FILE).

netcat - A networking utility which reads and writes data across networks from
the command line.

ssh-copy-id - A script that uses SSH to copy a public key to a remote machine's
authorized_keys.
.SS Code Management
cvs - (Concurrent Versions System) A revision control system using
client-server architecture.

svn - (Subversion) A software versioning and revision control system
maintained by apache and designed as a successor to CVS

hg - A distributed revision control system designed for high
performance, scalability, and decentralization.

git - A distributed version control system with an emphasis on speed, data
integrity, and support for distributed, non-linear workflows.

tig - A text-mode interface for git.

diff - Compares files line by line.

vimdiff - Edits 2 - 4 versions of a file with vim while showing differences.

ctags - A programming tool that generates an index file of names found in
source and header files of various programming languages.

cmake - Software for managing the build process of software using a
compiler-independent method.
.SS Games/Toys

nethack - A roguelike game descended from the game Hack and Rogue.

bastet - (Bastard Tetris) A Tetris clone.

gnugo - Open source implementation of the game Go.

gnuchess - Chess
.SS System Management Utilities
htop - An interactive system-monitor process-viewer.

strace - Application for tracing system calls and signals.

command-not-found - (Debian) Suggest a package when the user calls a command
that could not be found.

.SS Window/Session Managers

tmux - An Application used to multiplex several virtual consoles, allowing a
user to access multiple separate terminal sessions inside a single terminal.

screen - Application used to multiplex several virtual consoles, allowing a
user to access multiple separate terminal sessions in a single terminal.

.SS Misc. / Unsorted (Sort these!)
xargs - Used to build and execute command lines from standard input.

parallel - Shell tool for executing jobs in parallel using one or more
computers.

watch - Executes a program periodically, showing the output fullscreen.
.SH HISTORY
2004 - lrvick secured free-for-all usage of a dedicated server, hosted at
"The Planet" datacenter in Austin, TX, in exchange for providing free system
administration services to an educational web application provider. He
distributed shell accounts to a group of friends for personal projects,
organizing resources and efforts via IRC.

2006 - Having outgrown the shared server, the community opted to invest in our
own dedicated server, lovingly named "Adam". All projects were migrated over,
and a few months later "Eve" was added for redundancy and to minimize downtime.
These were hosted at SiteGenie in Rochester, MN.

2008 - As a hosting service, we hosted many web projects visited by hundreds of
thousands of users, in addition to seeing hundreds of users on our IRC and
shell services. Our community was known in multiple IRC circles to have very
well-developed overall system security, and we regularly dealt with various
types of attacks trying to break through. A "Script Kiddie" named Piratox,
unable to break in through any usual methods, opted to make use of a large
botnet, disrupting us with a large scale DDOS attack.

The attack was significant enough that the entire SiteGenie datacenter was
taken offline. Though we tracked down Piratox and ended the dispute, SiteGenie
was unprepared to deal with the possibility of further DDOS attacks of similar
scale and promptly ended our contract. They generously offered to overnight our
hard drives to any location we chose. Seeing the potential in this, we involved
it in the backup plans that had already been set in motion.

Echelon, a volunteer admin, brought "Noah" online in his Ohio basement.
Bluescales, another volunteer admin, rushed to setup a VPS in a Montana
Datacenter. He dubbed it "Moses". We quickly routed essential services from
backups between the two servers while one of the two backup drives containing
user files was overnighted to Noah. Shell user files were available to our
community again within 24 hours.

With emergency options in place, we sought a new primary server. After
reviewing our budget and options, we opted for a dedicated server at a newer
company, VolumeDrive, in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania. We took a chance on them
due to their reputation for inexpensive, unmetered bandwidth plans with
regular bandwidth testing. "Melchiz" was born, and quickly became responsible
for community services including shells, email, and IRC, as well as hosting
most smaller websites.

VolumeDrive was a good fit for most of our services; however, like SiteGenie, 
they were unwilling to deal with the unwanted attention that our historical
reputation could bring. To address this, we deployed "Samson" in an undisclosed
location, ensuring it would be difficult to target by disruptive parties.
"Gideon" was deployed in Germany as a dumb proxy to more reliably protect
Samson's location. Were it to ever go down, more could rapidly take its place.
We felt really good about the maintainability of this setup.

2010 - Samson needed a kernel update to address security issues that had
recently come to light. One of our volunteer admins, Viaken, decided to take on
the kernel update on his own, but did not include the correct SATA driver. On
reboot, Samson experienced a kernel panic. Per a special agreement with the
datacenter, hosting was available and free so long as support was never
contacted. Thus, Samson was to remain frozen at a kernel panic screen, and
may still be hung there to this day. Gideon, now purposeless, was taken
offline shortly thereafter.

We were left with no choice but to risk hosting all services on Melchiz until
a better solution could be secured.

2013 - After frequent downtime and multiple disputes with VolumeDrive
(including a case where they mistakenly formatted one of our production hard
drives), our community sought to "go big or go home". We went big and secured
the dedicated server "Og". Og's specs were more than overkill for everything
we provided, but we knew it would be worth it for our long-term goals of
expanding our free community offerings to the general public. 

2014 - #! shells are now available to the general public. Welcome!


.SH You can help!

Fork, make changes, and submit Github Pull Requests Here:

https://github.com/hashbang/shell-server

This man file can be updated here:

https://github.com/hashbang/shell-server/blob/master/usr/local/man/man7/hashbang.7
